# 1_2024 - PLF

### I.1. Consider the following function definition in LISP

### (DEFUN F (L)

### 	(COND 

### 		((NULL L) NIL)

### 		((LISTP (CAR L)) (APPEND (F (CAR L)) (F (CDR L)) (CAR (F (CAR L)))))

### 		(T (LIST (CAR L)))

### 	)

### )

### Rewrite it in order to have only one recursive call (F (CAR L)). Do not create global variables. Do not write a new subalgorithm to achieve the same thing. Justify your answer.

>(defun f (l)
>
>​	(let ((first_result (f (car l))))
>
>​	(cond
>
>​		((null l) nil)
>
>​		((listp (car l)) (append first_result (f (cdr l)) (car first_result)))
>
>​		(t (list (car l)))
>
>​	)
>
>​	)
>
>)

### I.2. Consider the following PROLOG definition for the predicate f(integer, integer), with the flow model (i, o): 

### f(0, 0):- !.

### f(I, Y):- J is I - 1, f(J, V), V > 1, !, K is I - 2, Y is K.

### f(I, Y):- J is I - 1, f(J, V), Y is V + 1.

### Rewrite the predicate in order to have only one recursive call f(J, V) in all clauses. Do not write a new predicate to achieve the same thing. Justify the answer.

> f(0, 0):- !.
>
> f(I, Y):- J is I - 1, f(J, V), aux(I, J, V, Y).
>
> aux(I, V, Y):- V > 1, !, Y is I - 2.
>
> aux(_, V, Y):- Y is V + 1.

### I.3. The LISP function F is defined by

### (DEFUN F (X &OPTIONAL Y)

	### 	(COND

### 		((NULL Y) (CDR X))

### 		(T (CONS (CAR X) Y))

### 	)

### )

### What is the result of evaluating the form (APPEND (F '(1 2)) (F '(3 4) '(5 6)))? Justify the answer.

> (2 3 5 6)

### I.4. Consider the PROLOG predicate p(integer) with the flow model (i)

### p(100).

### p(N):- write(N), N1 is N - 1, p(N1).

### Give the effect of the following goal: p(0). Justify the answer.

> infinite loop: prints the numbers from 0 descending; it never reaches 100 to stop.

### II. Chairs must be arranged for a show. There are red chairs and yellow chairs. One row contains 5 chairs. Find all the possible arrangements of chairs on a row, knowing that there can be at most 3 yellow chairs on a row. Write the mathematical model, flow model and the meaning of all variables for each predicate used. Some elements in the solution: ['Y', 'R', 'R', 'R', 'R'], ['R', 'Y', 'Y', 'R', 'R'], ['Y', 'Y', 'Y', 'R', 'R'], ['R', 'Y', 'Y', 'R', 'Y'], etc.

