# 2_2024 - PLF

### I.1. Consider the following function definition in LISP

### (DEFUN F (G L)

### 	(COND

### 		((NULL L) NIL)

### 		((> (FUNCALL G L) 0) (CONS (FUNCALL G L) (F (CDR L))))

### 		(T (FUNCALL G L))

### 	)

### )

### Rewrite it in order to have only one recursive call (FUNCALL G L). Do not create global variables. Do not write a new subalgorithm to achieve the same thing. Justify your answer.

>(DEFUN F (G L)
>  (LET ((RESULT (FUNCALL G L)))
>    (COND
>      ((NULL L) NIL)
>      ((> RESULT 0) (CONS RESULT (F (CDR L))))
>      (T RESULT)
>    )
>  )
>)

### I.2. Let L be a numerical list and consider the following PROLOG definition for the predicate with the flow model (i, o):

### f([], -1).

### f([H|T], S):- f(T, S1), S1 > 0, !, S is S1 + H.

### f([**_**|T], S):- f(T, S1), S is S1.

### Rewrite the predicate in order to have only one recursive call f(T, S1) in all clauses. Do not write a new predicate to achieve the same thing. Justify the answer.

>f([], -1).
>f([H|T], S):- f(T, S1), aux(S1, H, S).
>
>aux(S1, H, S):- S1 > 0, !, S is S1 + H.
>aux(S1, _, S):- S is S1.
>
>% an auxiliary predicate is used. this solution does not involve understanding semantics

### I.3. The LISP function G is defined by (DEFUN G(L) (LIST (CAR L) (CAR L))). In order to rename the function G we execute (SETQ Q 'G) followed by (SETQ P 'Q). What is the result of evaluating the form (FUNCALL (EVAL P) '(A B C))? Justify your answer.

> (A A)
>
> because P holds the symbol Q and Q holds the symbol G.

### I.4. Let L be a numerical list and consider the following PROLOG definition for the predicate g(list, list), with the flow model (i, o):

### g([], []).

### g([**_**|T], S):- !, g(T, S).

### g([H|T], [H|S]):- H mod 2 =:= 0, g(T, S).

### Give the result of the following goal: g([1, 2, 3], L). Justify your answer.

> the result is going to be L = [] because it never goes to the 3rd clause because of the '!' in the second one.

### II. For a given value N, write a PROLOG program to generate  the list of all permutations with elements N, N + 1, ..., 2 * N - 1 with the property that absolute value of difference between two consecutive elements from each permutation is  <= 2. Write the mathematical model, flow model and the meaning of all variables for each predicate used.

> % permutations(N: number, M: number, List: list) = 
> %	| [], M = N
> %	| insert(M, permutations(N, M - 1, List)), M > N
>
> % insert(N: number, List: list) = 
> %	| N U List
> %	| L1 U insert(N, L2, ..., Ln)
>
> insert(N, L, [N|RestOfResult]).
> insert(N, [H|L], [H|RestOfResult]):- insert(N, L, RestOfResult).
>
> permutations(N, N, []).
> permutations(N, M, List):- M > N, M1 is M - 1, permutations(N, M1, ResultedList), insert(M, ResultedList, List).

### III. Given an n-ary tree represented as (root (subtree_1) (subtree_2) ... (subtree_n)) in which nodes are numerical and non-numerical atoms, multiply each numerical node of the tree with its level. Root is on level 1. Use MAP functions. Write the mathematical model and the meaning of the parameters for each function used. Example 1: (1 (2) (3 (4(5)))) => (1 (4) (6 (12 (20)))). Example 2: (1 (2 (A (B))) (3 (4 (C (5))))) => (1 (4 (A (B))) (6 (12 (C (25))))).

>; multiply_tree (tree: list, level: number) = 
>; | [], tree = []
>; | multiply_tree(t1, level + 1) U multiply_tree(t2, ..., tn, level), t1 is list
>; | (t1 * level) U multiply_tree(t2, ..., tn, level), t1 is number
>; | t1 U multiply_tree(t2, ..., tn, level), otherwise
>
>(defun multiply_tree (tree level)
>  (cond
>    ((null tree) nil)
>
>    ((listp (car tree)) 
>      (cons (mapcar (lambda (subtree) (multiply_tree subtree (+ level 1))) (car tree)) (mapcar (lambda (subtree) (multiply_tree subtree level)) (cdr tree)))
>    )
>    ((numberp (car tree)) 
>      (cons (* (car tree) level) (mapcar (lambda (subtree) (multiply_tree subtree level)) (cdr tree)))
>    )
>    (T 
>      (cons (car tree) (mapcar (lambda (subtree) (multiply_tree subtree level)) (cdr tree)))
>    )
>  )
>)
>
>(print (multiply_tree '(A (B)) 3))
>
>; not done yet