# 9 - PLF

### 1. We define in Prolog the following predicate with the flow model (i, o). Explain the logical error in the following sequence, and correct it: f([], 0). f([H|T], S):- f(T, S1), S1 is S - H.

> The predicate 'f([], 0)' is a base case, stating that the sum of an empty list is 0. However, the recursive case 'f([H|T], S):- f(T, S1), S1 is S - H.' is problematic.
>
> The issue lies in the way it computes the sum. When computing S - H, S is unknown and S1 is known, thus we should compute S as being the sum between S1 and H.
>
> The corrected version should look like this:
>
> f([], 0).
>
> f([H|T], S):- f(T, S1), S is S1 + H.

### 2. Write a Prolog program that, given a list of integer numbers and lists of integer numbers, computes the list in reversed order (each sublist is reversed). Explain the proposed algorithm. For example, for [1, [2, 4, 3], 5, [6, 7]] the result is [[7, 6], 5, [3, 4, 2], 1].

> f([], Result, Result).
> f([H|T], Result, FinalResult):- is_list(H), !, f(H, [], PartialResult), f(T, [PartialResult|Result], FinalResult).
> f([H|T], Result, FinalResult):- f(T, [H|Result], FinalResult).
>
> % f([1, [2, 4, 3], 5, [6, 7]], [], R)
>
> % we're using an accumulative predicate, f([], Result, Result) being the base case in which we return the final result if the initial list is empty
>
> % if the first element is a list, then we reverse it and add it at the end of the result list
>
> % if it's not a list, we add it to the end of the result list

### 3. Write a Prolog program to generate a list of subsets of N element from a list. Explain the proposed algorithm. For example, for the list L = [2, 3, 4] and N = 2 the result is [[2, 3], [2, 4], [3, 4]].

> sublist(**_**, 0, []).
> sublist([H|T], N, [H|Result]):- N > 0, N1 is N - 1, sublist(T, N1, Result).
> sublist([**_**|T], N, Result):- N > 0, sublist(T, N, Result).
>
> sublists_of_n_elements(List, N, Result):- findall(Sublist, sublist(List, N, Sublist), Result).
>
> % sublists_of_n_elements([2, 3, 4], 2, R)
>
> % sublist(**_**, 0, []) is the base case: a sublist of 0 elements is always the empty list
>
> % the second line is the case in which we add the element H to the partial resulted sublist
>
> % the third line is the case in which we don't add the element H to the partial resulted sublist
>
> % the sublists_of_n_elements predicate generates all subsets of size N from the given list.

### 4. Write a Lisp function to return a nonlinear with all occurrences of a certain element e removed. For example, if the list is (1 (2 A (3 A)) (A)) and e is A => (1 (2 (3)) NIL), and if the list is (1 (2 (3))) and e is A => (1 (2 (3))).



### 5. Write a Lisp program to determine the number of sublists at any level of a given list, where the last atom (at every level) is non-numeric. The list processing will be done using a MAP function. For example, the list (A (B 2) (1 C 4) (D 1 (6 F)) ((G 4) 6) F) has 2 such sublists: (6 F), (D 1 (6 F)).

